Cclaver (#2)
lsst/rtn-093: speed.tex

\section{System Performance}{\label{secSysperf}}
  

> Handover means that the system will have passed the NSF and DOE Construction Completeness Review \#3 (CCR3).  Noting the formal close out of the MREFC grant and AURA cooperative agreement occurs with CCR4. The as delivered system will be {\it capable} of delivering images that satisfy the construction design requirements derived from the Sicnece Requirements Dopcument (SRD: \cite{LPM-17}).  These requirements are defined in the LSST System Requirements (LSR: \cite{LSE-29)}) and Observatory System Specifications (OSS: \cite{LSE-30}) documents. Following the final phase of commissioning which includes science validation (SV) observations, the state of the system will be assessed and the readiness of the system and team to begin the survey will be made. Further optimization by the Operations team will be planned as needed to ensure the system operates {\it reliably} at the needed level of performance capabilities. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handover means that the system will have passed the NSF and DOE Construction Completeness Review \#3 (CCR3).  Noting the formal close out of the MREFC grant and AURA cooperative agreement occurs with CCR4. The as delivered system will be {\it capable} of delivering images that satisfy the construction design requirements derived from the Science Requirements Document (SRD: \cite{LPM-17}).  These requirements are defined in the LSST System Requirements (LSR: \cite{LSE-29)}) and Observatory System Specifications (OSS: \cite{LSE-30}) documents. Following the final phase of commissioning which includes science validation (SV) observations, the state of the system will be assessed and the readiness of the system and team to begin the survey will be made. Further optimization by the Operations team will be planned to ensure the system operates {\it reliably} at the needed level of performance capabilities. 
```

> Rubin has developed a high level set of metrics summarizing the system performance with respect to overall survey efficiency. We need to simultaneously ensure that both 1) the system is producing viable science quality images and data products and 2) that the observing and acquisition of this data is efficient.  To this end, we gage the overall system survey capabilities in a 2--parameter space shown in Figure~\ref{fE}, marking the system + atmospheric contribution to delivered image quality versus the dimensionless survey efficiency or speed, \it{fE} -- integrated Normalized \'{E}tendue.  The combined summary Normalized \'{E}tendue metric (\it{fE}) is the product of 4 unitless f-metrics that gage system contributoins to the ''survey speed'', these are: 1)  \it{fS -- System Sensitivity} captures overall efficency of recording phtons from thew sky and is driven by optical transmission, sensor quantium efficency, sky brightness and image quality; 2) \it{fA - Fill Factor} captures the recoded area of the focal plane array relative to the area delivered by the optical system; 3) \it{fO Observing Efficiency} captures the efficency with which available observing time is scheduled and utilized for survey observations and 4)\it{SA System Availability} a final factor that captures overall operational efficency thatv takes into account weather and observatory downtime.   If the system is producing appropriate image quality and the system and team are acquiring data efficiently, we can confidently start the LSST.  The ''start'' criteries quantifies the threshold in the 2-parameter peromance space that is needed to achieve this goal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rubin has developed a high level set of metrics summarizing the system performance with respect to overall survey efficiency. We need to simultaneously ensure that both 1) the system is producing viable science quality images and data products and 2) that the observing and acquisition of this data is efficient.  To this end, we gauge the overall system survey capabilities in a 2--parameter space shown in Figure~\ref{fE}, marking the system $+$ atmospheric contribution to delivered image quality versus the dimensionless survey efficiency or speed, \it{fE} -- integrated Normalized \'{E}tendue.  The combined summary Normalized \'{E}tendue metric (\it{fE}) is the product of 4 unitless f-metrics that gauge system contributions to the ''survey speed'', these are: 1)  \it{fS -- System Sensitivity} captures overall efficiency of recording photons from the sky and is driven by optical transmission, sensor quantum efficiency, sky brightness and image quality; 2) \it{fA - Fill Factor} captures the recorded area of the focal plane array relative to the area delivered by the optical system; 3) \it{fO Observing Efficiency} captures the efficiency with which available observing time is scheduled and utilized for survey observations and 4)\it{SA System Availability} a final factor that captures overall operational efficiency that takes into account weather and observatory downtime.   If the system is producing appropriate image quality and the system and team are acquiring data efficiently, we can confidently start the LSST.  The ''start'' criteria quantify the threshold in the 2-parameter performance space that is needed to achieve this goal.
```

\begin{figure}%[!ht]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.75\linewidth]{fE.png}
\caption{Dimensionless survey efficiency factor, fE. System Availability is the most uncertain at this time. The current state of each factor is discussed below and the quantitative criteria for starting the LSST with respect to each factor is assessed.}
\label{fE}
\end{figure}

> All these \it{f--factors} are dimensionless and normalized by the corresponding SRD derived design values. They can be traded against each other against time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All these \it{f--factors} are dimensionless and normalized by the corresponding SRD derived design values. They can be traded against each other as time gained or lost.
```

In Figure~\ref{speed}, we show the state of our understanding of the image quality and survey speed before we went on sky with LSSTCam. The red star in the diagram is the design performance corresponding to 0.35$\arcsec$ system contribution to delivered image quality (DIQ as measure in the focal plane). The white circle is a forecast based on expectations before we went on sky. We believe there is nothing limiting us reaching that circle, but the current performance is not there yet. 

\begin{figure}[t]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.85\linewidth]{speed.png}
\caption{Image quality versus effective survey speed, fE. The system contribution to the image quality is shown on the left vertical axis and the delivered image quality including the atmosphere (added in quadrature) is on the right. The LSST design is accomplished with nominal speed 1.0 and system contribution to DIQ of 0.4$\arcsec$ in this diagram. Current performance is assessed below. The white circle is representative of where we want to drive the performance, but we have not reached it yet.}
\label{speed}
\end{figure}

> There are three regions defined in the diagram, green, light grey and dark grey, representing broad levels of opertyional performance towards meeting the 10--year LSST objectives. Clearly we want to be in the green shaded region and to the lower right in that space. The boundaries of the green box is defined by the design specification (upper) and stretch goals (lower) for the system image quality contribution.  The light gray space is unacceptable for science and the dark gray space covers the area where SRD minimum specifications are met for depth, area of LSST, and visits, but fails to meet the specification for minimum system contribution to the DIQ (0.4$\arcsec$). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three regions defined in the diagram, green, light grey and dark grey, representing broad levels of operational performance towards meeting the 10--year LSST objectives. Clearly we want to be in the green shaded region and to the lower right in that space. The boundaries of the green box are defined by the design specification (upper) and stretch goals (lower) for the system image quality contribution.  The light gray space is unacceptable for science and the dark gray space covers the area where SRD minimum specifications are met for depth, area of LSST, and visits, but fails to meet the specification for minimum system contribution to the DIQ (0.4$\arcsec$). 
```
